Rulebook 3.0 (#113)
International-Data-Spaces-Association/IDSA-Rulebook: 122_Vocabularies.md

### Optional functions

In addition to the functional elements of a data space, many optional
roles and components exist. The entities providing these functions must
join the data space like any other participant and fulfil all
requirements, policies and procedures enforced by the DSGA to establish
trust.

Depending on the services provided, these additional elements may need
to issue additional credentials, introduce additional trust anchors, or
require specific data contracts. There is a wide variety of optional
roles and services. Some especially useful ones are described here.

In general such optional functions can be distinguished as intermediary
functions or value-creating functions. Intermediaries can participate in
data spaces as value-creating services or functions.

**Intermediaries** are considered as optional in data spaces. Due to certain
regulations like the Data Governance Act, such intermediaries may require
additional governance.

**Value-adding services** may be realized by intermediaries or as function
of a data space participant. Such value-adding services are not subject

> to the IDSA Rulebook, but are explained in the [DSSC Blueprint Version 1](https://dssc.eu/)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
to the IDSA Rulebook, but are explained in the [DSSC Blueprint Version 3.0](https://dssc.eu/)
```
